CREATE DATABASE betag;



CREATE TABLE betag.awards (
    id int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    insdate timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(),
    level nvarchar(50) NOT NULL,
    requiredpoints int NOT NULL,
    pictureurl nvarchar(255),
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
);

INSERT INTO betag.awards (level, requiredpoints)
VALUES ('Beginner', 0),
('Apprentice', 50),
('Journeyman', 100),
('Expert', 200),
('Artisan', 400);



CREATE TABLE betag.baskets (
    id int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    insdate timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(),
    userid int NOT NULL,
    projectid int,
    quantity int DEFAULT 1,
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
);

INSERT INTO betag.baskets (userid, projectid)
VALUES (1, 10),
(2, 9);



CREATE TABLE betag.categories (
    id int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    insdate timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(),
    category nvarchar(255) DEFAULT 'Other',
    details nvarchar(255) DEFAULT 'Add the details of this category',
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
);

INSERT INTO betag.categories (category)
VALUES ('Other'), ('Biology'), ('Chemistry'), ('Computer Science'), ('Engineering'), ('Mathematics'), ('Physics');



CREATE TABLE betag.newsletter (
    id int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    insdate timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(),
    emailaddress nvarchar(255) NOT NULL,
    active boolean NOT NULL DEFAULT 1,
    PRIMARY KEY (id),
    UNIQUE (emailaddress)
);

INSERT INTO betag.newsletter (emailaddress)
VALUES ('juhasz.dossz@gmail.com');



CREATE TABLE betag.orders (
    id int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    insdate timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(),
    userid int NOT NULL,
    quantity int NOT NULL,
    status tinyint  NOT NULL DEFAULT 1,
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
);

INSERT INTO betag.orders (userid, quantity)
VALUES (1, 1),
(2, 3),
(3, 10);



CREATE TABLE betag.orderdetails (
    id int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    insdate timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(),
    orderid int NOT NULL,
    projectid int NOT NULL,
    quantity int NOT NULL,
    status tinyint  NOT NULL DEFAULT 1,
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
);

INSERT INTO betag.orderdetails (orderid, projectid, quantity)
VALUES (1, 1, 1),
(2, 2, 3),
(3, 3, 8),
(3, 4, 2);



CREATE TABLE betag.projects (
    id int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    insdate timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(),
    title nvarchar(255) NOT NULL,
    seo nvarchar(255),
    institution nvarchar(255) NOT NULL,
    shortd nvarchar(500) DEFAULT 'See the details if you are interested.',
    longd nvarchar(10000),
    contact nvarchar(255) NOT NULL,
    categoryid int NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
    donation int NOT NULL DEFAULT 5,
    goal int NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
    balance int DEFAULT 0,
    pictureurl nvarchar(255) DEFAULT '/images/projects/sub.png',
    link nvarchar(1000),
    isactive boolean NOT NULL DEFAULT 1,
    lastfunded date,
    PRIMARY KEY (id),
    UNIQUE (seo)
);

INSERT INTO betag.projects (title, seo, institution, shortd, longd, contact, categoryid, link)
VALUES (
'New calcium phosphate bone cements for potential biomaterial applications',
'new-calcium-phosphate-bone-cements-for-potential-biomaterial-applications-bone-repair-and-or-scaffold-fabrication',
'Aberdeen University',
'The focus of the project is to synthesise and control the doping of different elements into parent calcium phosphates that will be one or more of the reactant phases of the cement formulations.',
'Calcium phosphates bone cements are widely used for bone-replacement materials due to their chemical similarity to natural bone but also their ability to set and harden in situ and their ability to be injected as a paste. The impetus for such research is the ageing and more active population – the need to keep quality of life and activity, and to provide materials with longer endurance within the body.

In our biomaterials group the focus is on the synthesis and characterisation of various bioceramics, particularly in the targeted doping of the parent calcium phosphates with the aim of improving the properties, such as solubility, cell interaction, handling, and mechanical properties. Our research extends from basic science and fundamental materials chemistry through to biological testing and commercial application of such materials. The proposed project will be interdisciplinary in nature, allowing the candidate to develop their research skills within this very applied research area.

The focus of the project, therefore, is to synthesise and control the doping of different elements into parent calcium phosphates that will be one or more of the reactant phases of the cement formulations. These will be used in developing new calcium phosphate bone cement formulations. These materials have potential application in fabricating 3D scaffolds for bone tissue engineering and regenerative medicine, or as medical devices. The materials developed will be characterise using X-ray diffraction, Raman and IR spectroscopy, solid state NMR, electron microscopy, surface area and porosity quantification, solubility testing and mechanical testing.',
'I. R. Gibson',
1,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/new-calcium-phosphate-bone-cements-for-potential-biomaterial-applications-bone-repair-and-or-scaffold-fabrication/?p107807'),

('Boundary Effects in Active Matter Systems',
'boundary-effects-in-active-matter-systems',
'Aberdeen University',
'This theoretical project, at the forefront of active matter research, will investigate the effects of boundaries in finite flocking systems making use of both analytical methods and direct numerical simulations.',
'The study of collective properties of active matter is a fast-emerging interdisciplinary research field. Collections of interacting active particles describe the collective motion - or “flocking” - observed in systems as diverse as vertebrate groups - bird flocks, fish schools, mammal herds -, insect swarms, colonies of bacteria, molecular motors, as well as driven granular matter.

So far, active matter has been mainly studied in the bulk, addressing large systems and disregarding the effects of the border. In many finite systems of biological - i.e. bird flocks - or experimental interests - i.e. active colloids -, however, boundary effects cannot be easily disregarded and could indeed impact the bulk dynamics.

This theoretical project, at the forefront of active matter research, will investigate the effects of boundaries in finite flocking systems making use of both analytical methods and direct numerical simulations.

Subject Areas: Theoretical Physics, Condensed Matter Physics, Fluid Dynamics, Biophysics, Applied Mathematics

Active particles are able to extract and dissipate energy from their surroundings to produce systematic and coherent motion.
The study of collective properties of active matter is a fast-emerging interdisciplinary research field, which links out-of-equilibrium statistical physics - phase transitions, fluctuations - with biological - cellular biology, cooperative behavior in bacteria, animal behavior of large social groups - as well as engineering-related topics - swarm intelligence, communication networks of moving agents.

Collections of interacting active particles describe the collective motion - or “flocking” - observed in systems as diverse as vertebrate groups - bird flocks, fish schools, mammal herds -, insect swarms, colonies of bacteria, molecular motors, as well as driven granular matter.

So far, active matter has been mainly studied in the bulk, addressing large systems and disregarding the effects of the border. In many finite systems of biological or experimental interests, however, boundary effects cannot be easily disregarded.

Many bird flocks or fish schools, for instance, are composed by no more than a few thousands or even hundreds of animals, and a rather sharp, free boundary enclosing the group can be easily defined. Numerical models have shown indeed that an effective surface tension is needed to maintain the group cohesion.

The active colloidal particles studied in many experiments, on the other hand, are almost invariably confined by hard boundaries, which often constrain and orient the collective motion. The nature of this boundary-induced symmetry breaking needs to be clarified in order to better understand and interpret experimental results.

In this project, we will study the effects that both free and hard boundaries have on the bulk dynamics of flocking systems making use of direct numerical simulations of microscopic models and studying hydrodynamic theories with the proper boundary conditions.',
'F. Ginelli',
7,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/boundary-effects-in-active-matter-systems/?p107830'),

('Molecular machines: ribosome biogenesis',
'how-to-make-molecular-machines-modelling-ribosome-biogenesis',
'Aberdeen University',
'The main aim of this project is to develop a mathematical model of ribosome biogenesis taking into account the current knowledge about the biochemical pathways.',
'Ribosomes are arguably the most important biological molecular machines.

Cells can be seen as factories of proteins, with ribosomes being the machines producing them. Therefore, understanding how ribosomes themselves are made and how their production is controlled depending on the environment of the cell, is a fundamental question in cell biology. Despite of extensive information on the process of ribosome biogenesis gathered in recent years, the regulation of ribosome production upon changes in external cellular conditions remains an outstanding open question.

The main aim of this project is to develop a mathematical model of ribosome biogenesis taking into account the current knowledge about the biochemical pathways. In particular, we will aim at identifying the rate-limiting steps and most crucial mechanisms determining the production rate of ribosomes, as well as how this production can be finely tuned depending on external cellular resources and environmental conditions. We will also explore the links between the cell cycle and ribosome biogenesis, as well as metabolism. In contrast to a large mathematical model comprising a very high number of components, our objective is to develop a model as simple as possible, but nevertheless predictive, so that it allows us gaining insight into the fascinating process of ribosome biogenesis.',
'M. Carmen Romano',
7,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/how-to-make-molecular-machines-modelling-ribosome-biogenesis/?p107836'),

('Modelling the deformation of cells',
'modelling-the-deformation-of-cells',
'Aberdeen University',
'The World Health Organisation reports that infectious diseases cause 63% of childhood deaths and 48% of premature deaths. The risk of epidemics and pandemics can cause widespread morbidity and mortality.',
'Cells are the elementary building blocks of living organisms. The correct functioning of living organisms is therefore conditioned to the ability of living cells to withstand forces and deformations and to promptly adapt to their mechanical environment. Alteration of the cell mechanical properties can contribute to disease such as cancer. It is, therefore, crucial to identify the conditions that compromise the mechanical resilience of cells.

We recently observed that cells pocked by a microscopic cantilever respond with sudden avalanche-like events. Avalanche dynamics have been observed in solids - e.g. during fracture or deformation of shape memory alloys -, but are more surprising for living cells which are regarded as a soft material. The behaviour is, however, not completely unexpected
since cells exhibit solid and liquid-like properties.

Another intriguing manifestation of solid-like behaviour of cells is the recently observed degradation of the cytoskeleton integrity under cyclic loading. This behaviour is reminiscent of the degradation in solids which has been explained in terms of deformation-induced dislocations. The mechanism behind degradation for cells, however, is unknown.

This project will study avalanches and degradation of cells under mechanical load. The study will be based on network models inspired from models of avalanches in solids. Predictions of the model will be validated through comparison with experimental data. After validation, models will be used to make new predictions that can motivate new experiments.

The World Health Organisation reports that infectious diseases cause 63% of childhood deaths and 48% of premature deaths. There is the ongoing risk of epidemics and pandemics that can cause widespread morbidity and mortality - Spanish flu, ebola, SARS, E. coli, Listeria.

Infectious diseases can reach humans in many different ways: they can be transmitted between healthy and infected people, through consumption of infected food or water, through contact with animals, etc. The world is massively interconnected enabling people, animals and food to move rapidly between continents along with infectious disease agents.

Tracing the origin and spread of infectious diseases has never been more challenging and more important. The spectacular developments in detection and whole genome sequencing of disease agents as well as the computational power which enables timely processing of big data offers the opportunity to tackle this problem.

For example, the geographical spread of infectious disease is generally insufficient to trace back the labyrinth of possible pathways through which humans become infected. However, combining geographical information on disease spread with information on the genetic evolution of the infectious disease agents has promise. Methodologies to achieve this are still in their infancy and this project is an opportunity to make a significant contribution in tackling this critical problem. The project will:

1. Use computer workstations to simulate the spread and evolution of infectious disease agents. Simulations will be based on geographical and whole genome sequence datasets of real pathogens. The simulations will generate virtual histories of their spread and evolution.
2. Use these results to develop methods that explain how epidemics occurred.
3. Use this knowledge to predict future epidemics and to develop and simulate strategies to reduce infectious disease risk.',
'F. Perez-Reche',
7,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/modelling-the-deformation-of-cells/?p107835'),

('Noisy translation: modelling of stochastic effects on protein production',
'noisy-translation-modelling-of-stochastic-effects-on-protein-production',
'Aberdeen University',
'We will focus on stochastic effects of the process of translation, predicting the extent of fluctuations in protein production expected from different mRNAs.',
'This project will focus on the mathematical modelling of a fundamental process in the cell: translation of the messenger RNA into a protein. A messenger RNA contains the sequence of nucleotides transcribed from the DNA that encode a certain protein.

Molecular machines called ribosomes bind to the mRNA sequence and move along the nucleotide sequence thereby translating the sequence of codons - groups of 3 consecutive nucleotides - into the sequence of amino acids that form the protein. Like cars on a narrow countryside road, ribosomes cannot overtake each other, so that queues of ribosomes can form on mRNAs.
In this project we will develop a mathematical model to describe how ribosomes move along the mRNA sequence, thereby predicting protein production rates. This is a fundamental problem in molecular biology, as the amount of different kinds of proteins produced largely determined the behaviour of a cell.

In particular, we will focus on stochastic effects of the process of translation, predicting the extent of fluctuations in protein production expected from different mRNAs, taking into account effects such as codon composition, mRNA secondary structures and global competition for translation resources. Model predictions will be directly compared with experimental results so that a series of rounds of model refinement and validation can be performed.',
'contact',
7,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/noisy-translation-modelling-of-stochastic-effects-on-protein-production/?p107837'),

('Statistical physics of DNA replication',
'statistical-physics-of-dna-replication',
'Aberdeen University',
'This project addresses some fundamental questions on the nature of DNA replication, and we expect it will have high impact in the field.',
'The goal of this project is to apply statistical physics and probability theory to the problem of DNA replication in living cells. The replication of DNA is one of the most important processes in all of biology. DNA encodes all the information that is passed on to the next generation of cells, and it must be rapidly and faithfully copied when the time comes for cells to divide. Dramatic advances in sequencing technology and microscopy in the last two decades have allowed unprecedented experimental access to the inner workings of cells. We now have quantitative measurements of the dynamics of DNA replication in populations and even in individual cells. This means that the approaches of physics and applied mathematics can be applied to the study of DNA replication, and can be used to gain better understanding and new insights on this crucial phenomenon.

The replication of DNA is executed by molecular machines called DNA polymerase, which travel along the DNA molecule as it replicates it. The DNA polymerases must be assembled from several molecules at the starting point of replication – specific locations on the DNA called replication origins. These precursor molecule move in the nucleus through Brownian motion, making this a stochastic process. Once assembled, they travel through the DNA, “unzipping” it into its component strands and performing the replication as it goes. Because the DNA polymerase is a molecular machine, it is subject to thermal fluctuations from the environment, which affects how it moves. To further complicate things, the DNA is a busy place: many processes are taking place in it at the same time, especially protein synthesis. So the DNA polymerases can collide with other molecules bound to DNA and get stuck for a while. For all those reasons, DNA replication is expected to be highly stochastic. However, most models assume that the DNA polymerases travel at constant speed on the DNA. We will formulate mathematical models taking the stochastic nature of the movement of DNA polymerases into account. We will create numerical simulations to test the predictions from our theory, and compare our results to experimental data available from collaborators. We will also examine the assembly of the DNA polymerases from its component molecules, and model its waiting-time statistics.',
'Alessandro Moura',
7,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/statistical-physics-of-dna-replication/?p107833'),

('The mathematics behind the smartness of neural networks',
'the-mathematics-behind-the-smartness-of-neural-networks',
'Aberdeen University',
'Our goal is the creation of a general theory that describes the fundamental mathematical and physical rules, relevant properties and features behind the “intelligent” functioning of trained neural networks.',
'Intelligence is one of the pillars that allows animals to master their environment. Scientific approaches recently proposed have been capable of simulating networked systems that reproduce similar emergent manifestations of behavior as those observed in the brain. This big scientific area was coined as Artificial Intelligence. Our society is today intrinsically connected to it. Why and how a neural network can be trained to process information and produce a logically intelligent output is today still a big mystery, despite the explosive growth in this area. Its success in solving tasks cannot today be fully explained in physical or mathematical terms. Contributing to this challenge is the grand goal of this PhD project: the creation of a general theory that describes the fundamental mathematical rules and physical laws, relevant properties and features behind the “intelligent” functioning of trained neural networks. To this goal, this project will focus in a simpler but also successful type of machine learning approach, named Reservoir Computing. However other more popular approaches will also be considered. In RC, the learning phase to train a dynamical neural network to process information about an input signal only deals with the much easier task of understanding how the neural network needs to be observed, without dealing with the more difficult task of doing structural changes in it - e.g. as no deep learning. We aim at showing with mathematical rigour the contribution of the configurations and emergent behaviour of a dynamical network into the informational processing of an input signal leading to an intelligent response about it. We want to show why chaos in neural networks can enhance the smart behaviour of trained neural networks. Another goal will be to determine how “intelligence” depends on the particular way a network is observed to construct the output functions. Today, output functions are constructed based on the randomly chosen observation of some neurons in the network. The outputs of this project will potentially contribute to a better understanding of how our own brain computes. But, it will also contribute towards industrial exploitation of neural networks, by developing a mathematical formalism to create simpler but smarter neural networks that can process quicker more information with less computational resources.',
'Murilo S. Baptista',
7,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/the-mathematics-behind-the-smartness-of-neural-networks/?p107829'),

('Ecology of Dynamic Seasonal Salt Lakes',
'ecology-of-dynamic-seasonal-salt-lakes',
'Aberdeen University',
'The project will involve both fieldwork, as well as lab work and statistical modelling of food webs and species population dynamics.',
'Seasonal salt lakes present extreme environments, often characterised by low levels of biodiversity and relatively simple food webs. Nevertheless, they are often vital habitats for rare and important species. This study will attempt to characterise seasonal salt lakes in terms of biodiversity, food webs and population dynamics of key species and understand how these vary seasonally as well as long-term.

The project will involve both fieldwork, as well as lab work and statistical modelling of food webs and species population dynamics.',
'V. Louca',
2,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/ecology-of-dynamic-seasonal-salt-lakes/?p111116'),

('Fostering Sustainability Through Organic Waste Re-Use in Sub Saharan Africa',
'fostering-sustainability-through-organic-waste-re-use-in-sub-saharan-africa',
'Aberdeen University',
'This project will examine the benefits of different technologies for more efficient use of organic wastes.',
'Efficient re-use of organic wastes is of critical importance to the productivity of small-holder farm households in many parts of Sub-Saharan Africa. Organic wastes can provide important and sustainable organic fertilisers that recycle valuable nutrients back to the soil as well as increasing the organic matter content of the soil. This can improve soil structure, nutrient supply and productivity. Organic wastes are also widely used as sources of household fuel, usually by burning - dung or crop residues. Crop residues may also provide an important source of animal feed, while both dung and crop residues are used in building.

Technologies exist that allow more efficient use of organic wastes, so that they can be used to provide multiple functions and foster both sustainable food production and energy provision for smallholders farmers. For example, anaerobic digestion produces a much cleaner source of energy - biogas - than direct burning of organic wastes, while the residue from the process - bio slurry - is an excellent organic fertiliser, high in plant available nitrogen; pyrolysis cookstoves can be used to burn crop residues with much lower emissions of harmful particulates, with direct health benefit, especially for woman and children, while also producing biochar, which can either be incorporated in the soil as a soil improver, or briquetted to provide additional fuel.

However, despite the potential benefits of these technologies, adoption is slow. This may be due to
1. Unclear or non-realised benefits;
2. Lack of access to affordable equipment in remote areas;
3. Failures in the market for equipment and communication of benefits to potential users;
4. Preferences and cultural norms.

This project will examine:
1. the benefits of different technologies for more efficient use of organic wastes, producing maps of potential benefits in different areas of Sub-Saharan Africa,
2. the potentials for adoption, benefits and threats across different production systems and dominant value chains.
3. the factors influencing adoption or disadoption of different technologies in different regions of Sub-Saharan Africa,
4. failures in the market and communication of benefits to potential users.
The student will gain training in
1. Systems modelling - using the ORATOR model developed at UA;
2. Geographical information systems;
3. Statistical analysis in R;
4. High level use of Excel;
5. Programming in Fortran;
6. Qualitative socio-economic data collection and analysis; and
7. Policy analysis.',
'Diana Feliciano',
2,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/fostering-sustainability-through-organic-waste-re-use-in-sub-saharan-africa/?p111119'),

('Supporting Healthy Honey Bees Against Varroa and Viruses',
'supporting-healthy-honey-bees-against-varroa-and-viruses-a-scientific-understanding-for-practical-solutions',
'Aberdeen University',
'We investigate the reasons for poor honey bee health and what steps can be taken to sustain strong vigour in the bees to prevent colony demise and maintain effective and efficient pollination services.',
'There is an increasing need for insect pollination for crop production worldwide. At the same time, there is a global crisis in honey bee health resulting in a shortage of managed bee colonies to satisfy the growing needs of food production. The reasons for the decline in honey bee numbers are numerous and differ slightly in different regions of the world, but generally include poor nutrition due to lack of forage, pesticide misuse, parasites, pests and diseases. Of particular note has been the spread of the external parasitic mite Varroa destructor from the Asian honey bee (Apis cerana) to a near global presence on the Western honey bee (A. mellifera) over the past 50 years. More recently, it has been recognized that the high lethality of Varroa infestation in a honey bee colony is not due to Varroa in isolation but due to its interaction with the deformed wing virus (DWV).
The project investigates the underlying reasons for poor honey bee health and what steps can be taken to sustain strong vigour in the bees at different scales (cellular, individual bee and/or colony level) to prevent colony demise and also maintain effective and efficient pollination services to a given crop system. The lab has extensive experience in honey bees, varroa and bee viruses. The student would be trained in apiculture, in vitro studies, biochemical assays, molecular biology and diagnostics, acarology, virology and statistics.',
'A. Bowman',
2,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/supporting-healthy-honey-bees-against-varroa-and-viruses-a-scientific-understanding-for-practical-solutions/?p111113'),

('Images in the medical and life sciences',
'images-in-the-medical-and-life-sciences',
'Aberdeen University',
'This project investigates the precise roles of pictorial representations, their unique qualities and limitations, which are still little understood.',
'Pictorial representations and images (e.g. photographs and diagrams) are common in the medical and life sciences. Examples include fMRI images and micrographs. They are convenient ways to communicate the results of investigations to peers and, potentially, a wider audience. But it is thought that they can also be involved in the process of research itself, e.g. by assisting the development of explanatory models. Furthermore, it has been argued that they can play an evidential role within scientific arguments. This project investigates the precise roles of pictorial representations, their unique qualities and limitations, which are still little understood.

An interdisciplinary approach to this topic is welcome, e.g. by combining philosophical analysis with historical and/or psychological research.',
'contact',
2,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/images-in-the-medical-and-life-sciences/?p110978'),

('Autonomous learning with Artificial Intelligence',
'autonomous-learning-with-artificial-intelligence',
'Aberdeen University',
'This project will focus on self-organising learning of an agent’s sensorimotor awareness in noisy environments.',
'The ability to learn the sensorimotor maps of unknown environments without supervision is a vital capability of any autonomous agent, be it biological or artificial. An accurate sensorimotor map should be able to encode the agent’s world and equip it with the capability to anticipate or predict the results of its actions. However, to design a robust autonomous learning technique for an unknown, dynamic, partially observable or noisy environment remains a daunting task. This project will continue work in this area that focuses on developing solutions to the above problems, particularly with a focus on self-organising learning of an agent’s sensorimotor awareness in noisy environments.

This work has particular relevance in today’s world with the advent of self driving cars, and other potential uses for autonomous robots and intelligent vehicular motion.',
'A. Starkey',
2,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/autonomous-learning-with-artificial-intelligence/?p109583'),

('Using CRISPR genome editing to determine the effects of obesity and hypertension associated polymorphisms',
'using-crispr-genome-editing-to-determine-the-effects-of-obesity-and-hypertension-associated-polymorphisms',
'Aberdeen University',
'There is now little doubt that morbid conditions such as obesity, cardiovascular disease and diabetes are mechanistically linked. Collectively, these conditions represent the biggest risk factors for life threatening diseases including stroke, heart attack and cancer.',
'Introduction. There is now little doubt that morbid conditions such as obesity, cardiovascular disease and diabetes are mechanistically linked. Collectively, these conditions represent the biggest risk factors for life threatening diseases including stroke, heart attack and cancer.

Genome wide association studies (GWAS) to determine the causes of obesity and hypertension have identified polymorphisms (SNPs) in potential upstream regulatory regions of a gene called BDNF which is expressed the hypothalamus and other areas of the brain. BDNF has several roles in the brain including mental health, appetite and blood pressure regulation (1, 2,3). Most of these SNPs occur within highly conserved regions around the BDNF gene that may control its expression rather than within the protein coding regions of the gene itself.

Preliminary data. To understand the role of BDNF regulation as a cause of obesity we used bioinformatics. Using molecular biology and primary neuronal culture we show that different alleles of GWAS associated obesity could change the activity of highly conserved enhancer regions that modulate the expression of the BDNF gene in hypothalamic neurones. Recognition of the effects of this SNP on the regulation of BDNF in hypothalamic cells is already an important finding for understanding the causes of obesity. We will used CRISPR genome editing to rapidly and accurately delete this enhancer. The results provide a strong basis for a studentship to further analyse the role of BDNF enhancers and their allelic variants in appetite, weight gain and blood pressure regulation in vivo.

Methods. The successful student candidate will test the effects of removing enhancers on the expression of the BDNF gene in the hypothalamus using in-situ hybridisation (to be supervised by Dr. Perry Barrett, an expert in in-situ hybridisation and feeding studies) and QrtPCR and on the feeding behaviour, blood pressure diabetes risk and metabolism of the mice (supervised by Prof. Mirela Delibegovic an expert in mouse models of obesity and diabetes(4)). CRISPr genome editing will also be used to reproduce the human allelic variants of obesity associated SNPs in these BDNF regulatory regions in mice and these mice will also be tested for resulting changes in gene expression, feeding behaviour, blood pressure and metabolism.',
'A. MacKenzie',
2,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/using-crispr-genome-editing-to-determine-the-effects-of-obesity-and-hypertension-associated-polymorphisms/?p105977'),

('A 3D in vitro model of wound healing incorporating skin, nerves and immune cells',
'a-3d-in-vitro-model-of-wound-healing-incorporating-skin-nerves-and-immune-cells',
'Aberdeen University',
'Our aim is to develop an improved in vitro 3D skin, sensory neuron, immune cell co-culture model that better recapitulates key aspects of the natural wound environment.',
'Diabetes, paralysis, being bed ridden and other conditions can result in chronic wounds that fail to heal, with significant personal consequences for patients and an annual cost of £4.5-5.1 billion annually (Guest et al., 2015) to the National Health Service. Animal models for assessing new wound healing therapies have inherent issues related to animal suffering and in some cases, their relevance to human tissues. ‘Proof of concept’ in vitro testing for new treatments typically uses scratch wounds in monolayer cultures of keratinocytes or fibroblasts but such highly simplified two-dimensional systems fail to account for the complexities of the real wound environment. In particular, the signalling between nerves and epithelial cells, and signalling by the array of immune cells, which collectively promote healing. Additionally, cells behave differently in a 3D environment, changing their sensitivity to the extracellular signals that drive wound closure and interacting with the matrix texture, physical stresses and molecules in their immediate vicinity. A few 3D human skin models have been established recently (using an air water interface to encourage skin-like keratinisation). Some incorporate neuron co-cultures (Lebonvallet et al., 2011; Martorina et al., 2017) but none also incorporate immune cells, which are essential players in the healing process, and these systems have never been used to explore the process of wound closure.

Aim: To develop an improved in vitro 3D skin, sensory neuron, immune cell co-culture model that better recapitulates key aspects of the natural wound environment. To manipulate the environmental conditions to optimise wound closure. To better understand the molecular basis of the interaction and interdependency between skin, neuron and immune cells in the healing process with a view to developing novel clinical therapies.

Experimental plan: We will co-culture human keratinocytes (from human skin or a cell line of human keratinocytes) and human dorsal root ganglion neurons (a cell line) on modified extracellular matrices. In some cases we will use a flexible substratum and a mechanical frame to mimic the physical properties and repetitive stretch they experience in human skin. This aspect is absent in existing in vitro wound healing models and our work will determine whether it contributes to scar formation and how excessive scarring could be prevented. Once the skin/nerve co-cultures are well established we will make full thickness circular punch wounds, seeding the wounds with human immune cells (focussing on monocytes, macrophages proinflammatory/wound healing types and T cells). Wound closure will be assessed by measuring wound area at discrete time points and by using histology, and immunofluorescence, qPCR, and flow cytometry techniques to define the expression and location of wound healing parameters. We will identify the 3D geometry, the molecular properties and the cell type profiles in the wounds over time. The healing of our skin model will be assessed under clinical conditions know to alter the rate of healing including high glucose, inflammation and hypoxia. In some cases we will cover the wound area with dressings shown clinically to improve healing compared to standard gauze dressings, but whose mode of action is not yet clear at the cellular level.

Impact: This model will expedite preclinical testing of new therapies for recalcitrant wounds with the potential to ease patient suffering and reducing the financial burden of care of chronic wounds to the NHS. We envision a particular utility for diabetic ulcers since healing could be compared in cultures derived from diabetic and non-diabetic donors, permitting a better understanding of the molecular basis for the failure of diabetic wound healing and potential innovative treatments.',
'A. M. Rajnicek',
2,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/a-3d-in-vitro-model-of-wound-healing-incorporating-skin-nerves-and-immune-cells/?p105982'),

('Dynamic prediction modelling in Parkinson’s disease',
'dynamic-prediction-modelling-in-parkinson-s-disease',
'Aberdeen University',
'Being able to estimate and update the evolving prognosis at different points in time is important for clinical decision making.',
'1. Background to the project:

Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a progressive, disabling, neurodegenerative disorder which is common in the elderly. Being able to predict prognosis has many benefits, including better information provision to patients; enabling personalised medicine, where treatments are tailored to an individual’s prognosis; and enhancing the design of clinical trials. These benefits can best be realised with the development of robust prognostic models, also known as clinical prediction models. These models are complex mathematical algorithms that use characteristics of a patient and/or their treatment to predict outcomes, but can be easily used by clinicians with a simple web-based interface, for example. Previous prognostic models have been developed for use in PD, but there is no clear gold standard model, and all current models have been designed for use at the time a patient is diagnosed with PD. Additional clinical features which arise during the disease course together with treatments are likely to influence prognosis. Therefore, as time goes on, the presence or absence of such features, or treatment-related variables, will allow adjustment of predictions of prognosis. Being able to estimate and update the evolving prognosis at different points in time is important for clinical decision making e.g. planning individualised interventions or planning for social care needs.

2. Proposed research and techniques:

The ideal study design to investigate prognosis in PD is the long-term follow-up of incidence cohorts. A previous systematic review identified only 6 such studies world-wide. We are leading a collaborative programme that has pooled the data from all these studies (4 in the UK, 2 in Scandinavia). We will use demographic, clinical, and genetic data from these studies to develop models using novel methods such as dynamic prediction to predict key clinical outcomes, including becoming dependent (needing help for basic activities of daily living), developing dementia, and death. Dynamic models allow us to update the chances of these outcomes at different points in time as new patient and treatment information becomes available. No previous studies have developed or validated dynamic prediction models using individual-patient data from several studies so appropriate methodology for this will have to be developed. You will join a collaborative team in the University of Aberdeen who are known in the world of PD research for their expertise in the creation of innovative prediction models and have experience in the development of dynamic prediction models in single studies in other disease settings. There be opportunities to develop collaborations with researchers in the other study centres (Universities of Cambridge, Newcastle, Stavanger, and Umea), for example around genetic predictors of prognosis in PD. We also have strong links with methodologists from Universities of Utrecht and Leiden. There will be opportunities to engage with local and national patient groups both in the development of this project, and upon development of the dynamic prognostic models, to improve the accuracy of prognostic information given to patients, and to engage with clinicians to evaluate the use of these models in clinical practice.',
'D. McLernon',
2,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/dynamic-prediction-modelling-in-parkinson-s-disease/?p105979'),

('Compressed learning and analytics at edge cloud',
'compressed-learning-and-analytics-at-edge-cloud',
'Aarthus University',
'Our goal is to design and develop compressed learning and analytics at edge cloud for emerging IoT applications.',
'Machine learning and data analytics are popular and powerful data processing methods to extract knowledge from raw sensor data in IoT. With the fast growing sensor data, data compression near the data source is a key method to minimize energy, transmission and storage cost. However, to perform machine learning and data analytics, the data is often required to be decompressed first, which often causes long delay and is even not practical for the emerging Edge computing based IoT applications. As many IoT applications cannot simply reply on central cloud-based computing infrastructure, due to time criticality, constrained long-distance connectivity and others, Edge computing is a promising paradigm to deploy the storage and computing resource close the end devices, i.e., extend the computing to the edge of the network. One of the challenges is that edge servers do not have large memory and storage as central cloud computing, it calls for efficient methods to allow distributed machine learning and data analytics directly in the compressed data domain, i.e., avoiding data decompression. In the literature, compressed learning have been applied for high-resolution images, video processing and text analysis.

This PhD project will focus on the design and development of compressed learning and analytics by leveraging sensor data compression techniques, e.g., compressed sensing, for IoT. The project will study the relation between compression ratio, processing time, and accuracy of the outcomes, as well as the cost in terms of energy, transmission and storage. In particular, the applicant will bridge the fundamental theory with practice in implementation. The primary goal is to develop novel compressed learning and analytics techniques in edge computing for time-critical and resource constrained IoT applications. The applicant is expected to deploy such designs in practical systems to demonstrate the results.

Our group operates at the intersection of theory and implementation of communication and computation, distributed systems, and Cloud/Edge technologies. For this reason, we encourage applicants with a strong theoretical profile or a strong implementation/programming profile (or ideally both) to apply. Our group also counts with a new and well-funded laboratory to deploy large storage servers pods, computing servers, ARM micro-servers for energy efficient edge operations, Jetson TX2 board, and a number of end-user devices.',
'Daniel Enrique Lucani Rötter',
4,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/compressed-learning-and-analytics-at-edge-cloud/?p112116'),

('Accountable autonomy of software agents',
'accountable-autonomy-of-software-agents',
'Aberdeen University',
'This research should develop knowledge models and reasoning processes related to accountability and how these may influence practical reasoning of software agents.',
'Many tasks once performed by humans are now carried out by autonomous artificial intelligence systems. An important aspect of such systems is their accountability, that is, how their decisions and behaviours can be recorded, scrutinised and, if necessary, revised. Practical reasoning software agents, in particular, become self-aware of their accountability and should factor in their accountability to change and improve their performance. This research should develop knowledge models and reasoning processes related to accountability and how these may influence practical reasoning of software agents.',
'W. Vasoncelos',
4,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/accountable-autonomy-of-software-agents/?p107816'),

('Complex Norm Synthesis via Deep Learning',
'complex-norm-synthesis-via-deep-learning',
'Aberdeen University',
'This project will investigate how agents operating as part of a group should learn behaviours that benefit the group as a whole.',
'This project will investigate how agents operating as part of a group should learn behaviours that benefit the group as a whole. These behaviours are commonly referred to as norms, and describe obligations, permissions and prohibitions on actions in specific contexts.

Existing work on norm synthesis is primarily symbolic, and this project will investigate whether more complex norms can be synthesised than existing approaches, and how well deep reinforcement learning techniques perform to synthesise norms.',
'W. Vasoncelos',
4,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/complex-norm-synthesis-via-deep-learning/?p107813'),

('Explainable Autonomous AI Systems',
'explainable-autonomous-ai-systems',
'Aberdeen University',
'This project will investigate how the decisions made by an AI system operating as part of a group can be explained.',
'This project will investigate how the decisions made by an AI system operating as part of a group can be explained. Such decisions could be based on theories and approaches ranging from machine learning, to automated planning, to game theory, and must consider not only the system’s goals, but also the behaviours of others in the system and the beliefs ascribed to them.

Initial techniques to be used within the project will include formal argumentation and dialogue theory, building on existing approaches to (single agent) explanation.',
'N. Oren',
4,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/explainable-autonomous-ai-systems/?p107814'),

('Algebraic Methods in Musical Composition',
'algebraic-methods-in-musical-composition',
'Aberdeen University',
'The aim of this project is to develop algebraic techniques for musical composition, to be played using modern musical software.',
'Algebraic operations have been used as compositional tools for centuries. For example, the group theoretical operation of translation on the integers can be identified with the musical operation of transposition. This sort of operation, as well as other more complex operations, are implicit in the fugal form as well as other forms founded on repetition.

The aim of this project is to develop algebraic techniques for musical composition, to be played using modern musical software. Such software presents the possibility of great precision in performance, which means frequencies away from those that correspond to points on the stave can be utilised, as well as frequencies that correspond to points on the stave.

Of particular interest are compositions that are constructed via similarity, To give an example, in one approach we consider algebraic operations, like transposition, that map sounds to similar sounds. The sound resulting from the application of a sequence of such operations to a sound are concatenated to create a further sound. A sequence of operations is applied to this sound in turn, and the resulting sequence of sounds is concatenated. And so on. After a number of iterations we stop and our composition is complete.',
'William Turner',
6,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/algebraic-methods-in-musical-composition/?p107827'),

('Applied Algebraic Topology in Geometry',
'applied-algebraic-topology-in-geometry',
'Aberdeen University',
'Persistent homology is a computational subject, and there are many programming tools for the study of it. This project offers an opportunity to learn and apply some of these tools.',
'In recent years the techniques of algebraic topology have been applied to data analysis with great success, and the resulting subject areas of Applied Algebraic Topology and Topological Data Analysis have seen rapid growth. This project will apply these new techniques to pure mathematics itself, in order to study geometric objects.

Topological data analysis studies point clouds, in which each point of the cloud represents a single piece of data. It tries to answer the question “What is the shape of the point cloud?”. It does this by allowing points of the cloud that are close together to merge, and then examining the resulting space. The features of the space that last for a long time as more and more points merge are called the persistent features, and give us a meaningful measurement of the shape of the point cloud. The result is called the Persistent Homology of the point cloud.

Topological data analysis has been used to great effect in applications, but has seen little use in pure mathematics itself. This project will seek out applications of topological data analysis in pure mathematics. For example, persistent homology can be applied to the cloud of points in a manifold. In this case, when points that are very close together are merged, the result is an accurate picture of the topology of the manifold. But the persistent features remain to be analysed, and it is hoped that they will encode geometric properties such as volume, diameter and curvature.',
'Richard Hepworth',
6,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/applied-algebraic-topology-in-geometry/?p107822'),

('Topological methods for image recognition',
'topological-methods-for-image-recognition',
'Aberdeen University',
'The aim of this project is to develop mathematical algorithms for manipulating and classifying medical images.',
'The aim of this project is to develop mathematical algorithms for manipulating and classifying medical images. Images from medical scans are typically presented as a collection of voxels (three-dimensional analogues of pixels); one wants to develop automated algorithms to determine from the scan whether, say, an organ is diseased. An efficient way has been found recently to represent voxel images, using ideas from graph theory and topology. In this project, theoretical and practical aspects of this representation will be explored further and the algorithms will be tested on some sample data sets.',
'Ben Martin',
6,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/topological-methods-for-image-recognition/?p107826'),

('Enhancing predictability in chaotic systems',
'enhancing-predictability-in-chaotic-systems',
'Aberdeen University',
'The goal of this project is to apply fundamentals and recent developments of dynamical system theory to enhance our ability to predict the future evolution of complex and chaotic dynamical systems.',
'The goal of this research program – which involves theoretical analysis and numerical simulations -- is to apply fundamental results and recent developments (to which the supervisors significantly contributed) of dynamical system theory to enhance our ability to predict the future evolution of complex and chaotic dynamical systems -- such as weather and climate systems.

Predictability is the degree to which we are able to correctly forecast the future state of a system given the (imperfect) knowledge of its present state. While our ability to accurately describe many physical systems via a deterministic set of equations may naively lead one to the impression that the future of such systems can be determined with a high predictability, this is dramatically untrue for a large class of deterministic system displaying chaos.

Chaos theory is amongst the most fundamental conceptual advances in our
understanding of the physical world, and the fact that general nonlinear dynamical systems are exponentially sensitive to initial conditions strongly constraints our ability to predict the future evolution of chaotic physical systems. Any (unavoidable) imprecision in our knowledge of the present state gets exponentially amplified in time according to the well-known largest Lyapunov exponent. It is clear that after a sufficiently long time any original uncertainty on the initial state, for how small it could be, will have been amplified out of proportion, making the predicted state completely different from the “real” one. This leaves us with a relatively short time window in which our predictions are reliable, a typical predictability timescale roughly given by the inverse of the Lyapunov exponent.

Weather forecasting and climate prediction are amongst the most typical examples of this predictability shortfall. In weather forecasting, for instance, one is faced with an incomplete and noisy knowledge of the present atmospheric state and with an approximate knowledge of the fluid dynamics equations governing its evolution. These equations, as the one governing other typical complex systems, are chaotic and extremely high-dimensional. These systems are characterized by different instabilities, each one corresponding to a different uncertainty direction in configuration space and
each one characterized by a different exponential growth rate (the so-called spectrum of Lyapunov exponents).
Intuitively, one can hope to improve the predictability timescale by identifying these directions and controlling the evolution along specific ones.

We will consider the so-called covariant Lyapunov vectors (CLVs), that
precisely span these unstable directions (as much as the stable ones, also present in such systems). Technically speaking, CLVs are associated to LEs (in a relation that resembles the eigenvectors-eigenvalues pairing), and provide an intrinsic decomposition of the tangent space that links growth (or decay) rates of (small) perturbations to physically based directions in configuration space. They can be used to associate instabilities timescales (the inverse of LEs) to the spatial scales and spatial structures of state perturbations or uncertainties.

CLVs have been recently used to study a simple multiscale systems (Lorenz 96), revealing the presence of a slow bundle in tangent space, composed by a set of vectors with a significant projection on the slow degrees of freedom; they correspond to the smallest (in absolute sense) Lyapunov exponents and thereby to the longer time scales. In this research project, we will explore how these results may find practical applications to ensemble forecasting and data assimilations in weather and climate models.',
'Francesco Ginelli',
7,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/enhancing-predictability-in-chaotic-systems/?p107831'),

('Wireless IoT chaos-based communication',
'fast-reliable-and-secure-wireless-iot-chaos-based-communication',
'Aberdeen University',
'This project tackles scientific issues aimed at creating and laying the mathematical foundations of an innovative Wireless IoT Communication System that is reliable, fast and light, universal, secure.',
'This PhD project tackles scientific issues aimed at creating and laying the mathematical foundations of an innovative Wireless IoT Communication System that is reliable (information arrives), fast and light (less power, less hardware, less computation, higher bit rates), universal (to mainly function underwater, but also appropriated to other wireless media), secure (not disclosing information to untrusted agents).

This PhD project will be separated in 2 main scientific challenges. The first challenge will be to understand under which conditions and configurations chaotic signals propagating in non-ideal channels can naturally support networked underwater communication systems involving several agents. The innovation here is to extend previous works that have shown the use of chaos for communication systems involving two agents in ideal channels to networked communication in the non-ideal channel. The second challenge is focused on network communication in non-ideal channels with trusted agents, knowledge required for the creation of the IoT Communication chaos-based system proposed. In the non-ideal channel, the received signal is a composition by interference of strongly distorted signals coming from several transmitters and propagating over several paths. The goal is to show that fast and light neural networks can be trained to recover information from a unique trusted transmitter, potentially enable “smart” data analytics about the information received. Communication can be done only by the trusted agents who know specifics of the training, knowledge that will provide support for the creation of a secure IoT communication system.',
'Murilo S. Baptista',
7,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/fast-reliable-and-secure-wireless-iot-chaos-based-communication/?p107828'),

('Research on Exoskeleton Control System based on Brain-Computer Interface',
'research-on-exoskeleton-control-system-based-on-brain-computer-interface',
'Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool University',
'This project proposes a novel convolutional-recurrent neural network method to realize real-time identification of motor imagery signals, and achieves closed-loop control of the exoskeleton system.',
'To ensure the safe and reliable operation of exoskeleton, the control system based on brain-computer interface is the premise and foundation, which has been discussed in literature. However, no effective solutions are provided for closed-loop control of the exoskeleton system at present. This project proposes a novel convolutional-recurrent neural network method to realize real-time identification of motor imagery signals, and achieves closed-loop control of the exoskeleton system with multi-mode physiological signals based on EEG data and human-machine interaction forces. The proposed method will be validated by simulation and experiment study with a prototype of rehabilitation exoskeleton. The research results will provide theoretical and technical support for improving the safe and reliable exoskeleton control, and show practical significance and engineering value in the research and development of intelligent exoskeleton with application in rehabilitation and other fields.',
'Mengjie Huang',
4,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/research-on-exoskeleton-control-system-based-on-brain-computer-interface/?p111740'),

('Discovery of antibiotics from uncultivated microbes',
'discovery-and-characterisation-of-new-antibiotics-from-uncultivated-microbes',
'Victoria University of Wellington',
'This project will use DNA sequencing and synthetic biology to explore the biochemistry of New Zealand’s uncultivated microbes.',
'Recent developments in DNA sequencing technology have greatly enriched our understanding of the microbial world. By directly sequencing DNA extracted from communities of environmental microbes, we have been able to observe a hidden majority of microbial species that cannot be readily grown in the laboratory. We now know that the soil beneath our feet, and the oceans that surround us are home to a far greater diversity of microbial species than we had previously imagined. In the case of soil, just a single gram can contain more than 10,000 unique bacterial species, the vast majority of which have never been cultivated in a laboratory. Many of these uncultivated microbes harbor the potential to produce as yet unknown chemical entities that they use to kill competing species in their environments. We are surrounded by new antibiotics that are waiting to be discovered with the right approach.

This project will use DNA sequencing and synthetic biology to explore the biochemistry of New Zealand’s uncultivated microbes. By extracting DNA directly from complex microbial communities and storing this as a library of cloned fragments, one can directly access the genes that act as blueprints for producing novel chemical entities, without being limited by the need to cultivate the host bacteria. Delivering these instruction sets to a laboratory host that is able to read and execute them, allows generation diverse collections of new biologically active small molecules that have the potential to be developed into medicines. A particular focus of this research will be the discovery new lead compounds in the fight against antibiotic resistant superbugs.',
'Jeremy Owen',
2,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/discovery-and-characterisation-of-new-antibiotics-from-uncultivated-microbes/?p82272'),

('Digital Modeling of Asynchronous Integrated Circuits',
'digital-modeling-of-asynchronous-integrated-circuits',
'Vienna University of Technology',
'We are devoted to the development of a purely digital model for asynchronous circuits, which enables accurate and fast dynamic timing analysis.',
'The project Digital Modeling of Asynchronous Integrated Circuits (DMAC) is devoted to the development of a purely digital model for asynchronous circuits, which enables accurate and fast dynamic timing analysis and is a mandatory prerequisite for any attempt on practical formal verification of such designs. The envisioned model shall be accurate and realistic (= faithful), in the sense that the behavior of circuits described in the model is exactly, i.e., within the modeling accuracy, the same as the behavior of the corresponding real circuit. In contrast to analog models, which are known to be faithful but suffer from excessive simulation times, we target continuous-time discrete-value models here, which essentially boil down to elaborate delay models for gates and/or interconnecting channels.

The project builds on our novel involution model, which considers input-to-output delays as as function of the history in the signal trace. DMAC will fully explore this avenue scientifically, by answering questions such as how to enlarge the class of circuits where the involution model and variants thereof are faithful, how to compose gates with different electrical properties, in particular, different threshold voltage levels, how to accurately model subtle delay variation originating in the Charlie effect in multi-input gates, how to parametrize and characterize the model for a given technology and given operating conditions, and how to possibly further improve the modeling coverage and accuracy. In addition, we will also make the first steps to incorporate our models into existing timing analysis and verification tools for validation purposes.

Keywords: Digital integrated circuits, continuous-time delay modeling, dynamic timing analysis, model composition, correctness proofs, formal verification.

Project duration: 2019-2023',
'Ulrich Schmid',
5,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/digital-modeling-of-asynchronous-integrated-circuits/?p112155'),

('Construction of QSAR models for searching multi-target drug hits',
'construction-of-qsar-models-for-searching-multi-target-drug-hits-beyond-similarity-based-applicability-domains',
'Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool University',
'The current project aims to develop an extended QSAR approach via chemspace-wide activity regression which can be an effective approach for finding novel drug hits outside the similarity-based ADs.',
'Drugs designed to act against individual molecular targets cannot usually combat multigenic diseases such as cancers in which alternative or compensatory pathways are often activated. Thus, selection of proper multi-target combinations and prediction of new molecules against multi-targets are highly useful for discovering drugs with improved therapeutic efficacies. In silico methods have been extensively explored for the discovery of multi-target drugs. Apart from drug lead optimization, predictive quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) models with well-defined applicability domains (ADs) have shown promising capability in virtual screening large chemical databases for drug candidate selection. However, these models are impeded by their inability in finding highly novel drug hits outside similarity-based ADs. The current project aims to develop an extended QSAR approach via chemspace-wide activity regression which can serve as an effective novel approach for finding novel drug hits outside the similarity-based ADs.',
'Xin Liu',
2,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/construction-of-qsar-models-for-searching-multi-target-drug-hits-beyond-similarity-based-applicability-domains/?p111733'),

('Tractable situation coverage for autonomous cars',
'tractable-situation-coverage-for-autonomous-cars',
'University of York',
'In this PhD project, we could:

• Design and justify a situation space model for an autonomous car
• Implement situation generation (in simulation) based on that
• Evaluate how effective the resulting testing is at finding seeded faults in a simulated autonomous vehicle',
'Research areas: Autonomous and self-adaptive systems; Safety analysis, system safety; Safety of autonomous and self-adaptive systems; Software testing

It is hard to test autonomous robot (AR) software because of the range and diversity of external situations (terrain, obstacles, humans, peer robots) that the robots must deal with. AR must interpret a wide variety of stimuli from their world and make decisions that are appropriate given the specific combination of stimuli they are receiving – their relationship with their environment is complex. Many features of the environment that matter are not specific to the mission goals – they are simply present, and must be handled. Beyond merely needing to avoid accidents, AR may need to comply with detailed-yet-ambiguous rules intended to guide human behaviour (such as the UK Highway Code and Rules of the Air).

Situation coverage as a potentially important technique for testing AR. Put simply, situation coverage is a measure of the proportion of all possible situations (that the software under test could conceivably encounter) that have been tested by some test set. Like any coverage criterion, situation coverage can be used to assess the adequacy of a test set, and to guide automated test generation.

There are some existing models of situation spaces for 3D scenes. To date, however, no-one has published a tractable and interesting situation space model for an autonomous vehicle.',
'Rob Alexander',
4,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/tractable-situation-coverage-for-autonomous-cars/?p111960'),

('Understanding player experience in digital games',
'understanding-player-experience-in-digital-games',
'University of York',
'When we understand what is happening in games, we may be in a better position to understand experiences in other interactive systems.',
'Research areas: Digital games; Player experience and user experience

We would like our interactive systems to offer fulfilling experiences to people but often they don’t. By contrast, games offer compelling experiences to millions of players every day but we know little about what precisely those experiences are and how games provoke them. I am interested in a range of aspects of player experience including immersion, social presence and engagement in games. When we understand what is happening in games, we may be in a better position to understand experiences in other interactive systems.',
'P. Cairns',
4,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/understanding-player-experience-in-digital-games/?p112082'),

('3D Shape Modelling of the Human Head',
'3d-shape-modelling-of-the-human-head',
'University of York',
'This project is concerned with the mathematical and computational modelling of human craniofacial 3D form and variation and its clinical application in craniofacial surgery.',
'Research areas: Computer Vision and Image Processing; Machine learning

The proposed PhD project is concerned with the mathematical and computational modelling of human craniofacial 3D form and variation and its clinical application in craniofacial surgery. The work sits in the research areas of Computer Vision and Machine Learning.
We wish to accurately, reliably and automatically parameterise craniofacial surfaces in children and adults. This will allow us to compare two head surface scans (eg. pre- and post-operative), since current automatic labelling of various head parts is poor and manual annotation is difficult, inaccurate and time-consuming. We aim to develop state-of-the-art automatic landmarking algorithms and shape modelling processes using Machine Learning techniques. The models will allow us to morph the head shape of syndromic patients to unwind the dysmorphia and see what they should look like without the genetic condition (e.g. Apert syndrome), thus providing target shapes for operations.

1) Health technologies priority area.
The proposed project matches to the EPSRC DTA strategic Health Technologies priority area. The work will be used to develop software tools to aid craniofacial clinicians plan, conduct and assess reconstructive craniofacial interventions.

2) University and Department Research Strategy
This work aligns with three research themes identified as areas of research excellence by the University: (i) Health and Wellbeing, clearly successsful work in this area will be of great benefit to craniofacial patients and their families in the UK, and more widely; (ii) Risk, Evidence and Decision Making, our software tools will allow craniofacial surgeons to support their planning and decision making with quantitative data around model-generated population norms and variances, this is currently completely lacking, and (iii) Technologies for the Future, our models will be developed using Machine Learning (ML) techniques, which have been identified by the Royal Society as a breakthrough technology that will transform our future. The CS Department is active in ML across at least three research groups (AI, CVPR, ACAG).

3) Building on existing research.
There is currently one CS PhD student working in this area Hang Dai. He is working on the initial modelling of the Alder Hey Headspace 3D datset of over 1500 3D images. This is the largest, wide demographic dataset of full head (including full cranium) and hence we have a unique opportunity to be first to develop statistical models of the full human head surface. There is far more work to be done than a single PhD and a follow-on PhD will significantly strenghthen our capability and impact in this area.

4) Collaboration with other Departments.
In terms of 3D face and head modelling, we are collaborating with Prof Paul O’Higgins at the Hull-York Medical School and Dr Rob Jenkins in Psychology. We aim to submit research proposals to augment PhD work with RA-based development. We have a strong collaboration with the Craniofacial Department at Alder Hey Children’s Hospital Liverpool.',
'N. Pears',
4,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/3d-shape-modelling-of-the-human-head/?p112101'),

('Modelling of innovative mobility services',
'simulation-and-modelling-of-innovative-mobility-services',
'University of Wolverhampton',
'A combination of a multi-agent system architecture coupled with big data and machine learning analytics needs to be realised.',
'Modern transportation systems require the utilisation of simulation and modelling approaches for evaluation and impact assessment prior to their deployment. Although such approaches exist for conventional mobility services and infrastructure, innovative services, concepts and technologies (e.g. drive-sharing, ride-sharing, crowd shipping, crowd delivery, connected and automated vehicles, Mobility as a Service) need tools that will allow decision makers to understand better their impact on sustainable development.

The aforementioned tools entail an integrated approach for modelling transport supply and demand, as well as the harnessing of data from Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) applications. Therefore, a combination of a multi-agent system architecture coupled with big data and machine learning analytics needs to be realised.

In this project, the successful candidate, in collaboration with supervisors and peer researchers will work towards the development of models that can be used for the simulation of modern mobility services in urban areas. The developed models will be integrated to form a simulated and control environment that will interact with real-world ITS through a big-data processing platform. It will allow the assessment of different scenarios of mobility services and have the capacity to produce key performance indicators for decision makers.',
'Keith Burnham',
5,
'https://www.findaphd.com/phds/project/simulation-and-modelling-of-innovative-mobility-services/?p111502');

UPDATE betag.projects
SET `pictureurl`='/images/projects/biology.jpg'
WHERE `categoryid`=2;

UPDATE betag.projects
SET `pictureurl`='/images/projects/chemistry.jpg'
WHERE `categoryid`=3;

UPDATE betag.projects
SET `pictureurl`='/images/projects/computerscience.jpg'
WHERE `categoryid`=4;

UPDATE betag.projects
SET `pictureurl`='/images/projects/engineering.jpg'
WHERE `categoryid`=5;

UPDATE betag.projects
SET `pictureurl`='/images/projects/mathematics.jpg'
WHERE `categoryid`=6;

UPDATE betag.projects
SET `pictureurl`='/images/projects/physics.jpg'
WHERE `categoryid`=7;

UPDATE betag.projects
SET `goal`= 500;



CREATE TABLE betag.reviews (
    id int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    insdate timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(),
    userid int NOT NULL,
    text VARCHAR(500) NOT NULL,
    rate INT NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
);

INSERT INTO betag.reviews (userid, text, rate)
VALUES (2, 'I like the idea very much', 5),
(1, 'Awwwwwwwwwww', 4),
(4, 'I like this site. Way to go guys!', 4),
(3, 'Fontosak vagytok', 5);



CREATE TABLE betag.status (
    id int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    insdate timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(),
    status nvarchar(50) NOT NULL,
    PRIMARY KEY (id)
);

INSERT INTO betag.status (status)
VALUES ('Donation Request Arrived'),
('Donation Received'),
('Donation Transfered'),
('Confirmation Received'),
('Donation Canceled');



CREATE TABLE betag.users (
    id int NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    insdate timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP(),
    firstname nvarchar(255) NOT NULL,
    lastname nvarchar(255) NOT NULL,
    gender boolean NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
    username nvarchar(255) NOT NULL,
    emailaddress nvarchar(255) NOT NULL,
    password nvarchar(255) NOT NULL,
    address nvarchar(1000),
    pictureurl nvarchar(255) DEFAULT '/images/users/user_default.png',
    admin boolean NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
    points int NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
    donations int NOT NULL DEFAULT 0,
    token nvarchar(255),
    PRIMARY KEY (id),
    UNIQUE (username, emailaddress)
);

INSERT INTO betag.users (firstname, lastname, gender, username, emailaddress, password, admin, pictureurl)
VALUES ('Dorottya', 'Juhász', 0, SHA1('JDorka'), 'juhasz.dossz@gmail.com', SHA1('Dorka2019'), 1, '/images/users/JuhaszDorottya.JPG'),
('Szilvia', 'Kapuvári', 0, SHA1('KSzilvi'), 'kapuvari.szilvia@gmail.com', SHA1('Szilvi2019'), 1, '/images/users/KapuvariSzilvia.JPG'),
('Dániel', 'Oláh', 1, SHA1('OlahD'), 'olah.daniel95@gmail.com', SHA1('Olah2019'), 1, '/images/users/OlahDaniel.JPG'),
('Sára', 'Pál', 0, SHA1('PSari'), 'pal.sara.ajandek@gmail.com', SHA1('Sari2019'), 1, '/images/users/PalSara.jpg'),
('Ágoston', 'Zajkás', 1, SHA1('ZAgoston'), 'agostonzajkas@gmail.com', SHA1('Ago2019'), 1, '/images/users/ZajkasAgoston.JPG');

