INSERT INTO projects
(title,subtitle,abstract,description,institution,contact,members,link,category)
VALUES
(
'Computer games to support arm rehabilitation after stroke',0,'The overall aim of this PhD project is to further develop this prototype to optimise its therapeutic potential and usability by considering design requirements from stakeholders (i.e. stroke survivors and carers, and health professionals such as occupational therapists and physiotherapists).','Stroke is one of the most common causes of disability across the world. Up to 80% of acute stroke patients experience loss of arm function, including loss of strength, coordination and manual dexterity, which can make daily activities such as self-care and food preparation difficult. In turn, these difficulties may affect autonomy, self-esteem, mood and quality of life. In a considerable proportion of stroke survivors, arm impairment persists after formal rehabilitation has ceased. The potential for recovery after stroke persists, but requires dedicated, intensive functional training. This can be difficult for stroke survivors to commit to, e.g. due to fatigue, shoulder pain, depression or lack of support. Recent years have seen an increase in evidence supporting the use of commercial games to improve arm function after stroke (Thomson et al., 2014). This approach has considerable potential to improve arm function by increasing engagement with activities at home, providing a low-cost adjunct to formal rehabilitation and utilising inexpensive off the shelf game technology that is easily available. However, most commercial games have not been designed for people with complex disabilities and would require considerable adaptation for use in the home. Additionally, there is now a significant body of music psychology research demonstrating the benefits of preferred music listening upon a range of factors related to health and wellbeing. Specifically, research has demonstrated the benefits of rhythmic auditory stimulation integrated with repetitive task practice on arm function in stroke survivors - i.e. the synchronisation of movement with an audible rhythm (van Wijck et al., 2012).
At GCU, we have developed a bespoke prototype music game, which integrates the principles of rhythmic auditory stimulation with repetitive practice, based on individuals’ preferred music. This game, which uses off-the-shelf technology, has been specifically designed for stroke survivors with a range of impairments (including arm motor, visual and cognitive impairments) (Averell & Knox, 2019).','Glasgow Caledonian University','Dr K Thomson','Dr K Thomson, Dr D Knox, Prof F van Wijck','https://www.gcu.ac.uk/hls/research/researchgroups/livingwithstroke/','Arts PhD Projects'
),
(
  
)